The pathway of life – Nguyen Phuong Hao

This project represents Sisyphus – Albert Camus’ Sisyphus in particular - by attempting to prove the fruitlessness but necessity of moving forward in life. 

It’s a small interactive piece in which the player keeps pressing the right arrow key to keep the music on playing and the butterfly on moving up the “hill”. However, is the butterfly really moving forward? As the player keeps on pressing, the whole scene is zoomed out, and it’s revealed that the butterfly has been moving in a circle the whole time. The only reward given to the player is perhaps the visual value and the music, but ultimately, there is no achievement.

The project’s idea is inspired by how Albert Camus put Sisyphus and the normal human life in parallel. Sisyphus in his opinion is happy, because despite the fruitlessness of his action, he still keeps on moving and fighting fate. It is also the way many of us live our everyday life: we hold on to meaningless things and fruitless relationships, making them important through our actions. We live through days and nights, moving around in a round earth and repeating tasks; we even hope that nothing would break our peaceful routine. It is as if we are moving “forward” in an endless cycle, and I hope to convey that idea with my presentation.

I intended the project to be visually pleasing and decorative. The pathway circles are decorative stock images that are very symmetric and intricate. They stay the same through the journey of the butterfly, it is only our perspective of them that changes. To be very honest, I thought the animation of the circles while holding a key would be simple enough (an impression that I had through the p5 courses). In the end however, the rotation is complicated enough that I spent more time on it that necessary, which resulted in me having to download another jQuery library to perform the action. And it was still not perfect! The animation seems choppy and lag-y on browsers that are not Google Chrome, and the program behaves differently on each device. I had to make do with what I got, and was at least relieved that it stopped and moved at the arrow key’s command.

The choice of the butterfly as avatar is also a compromised process. At first, I planned it to be a human figure that moves when the key is pressed (using setInterval), but the creation of different moving keyframe in accordance to the pathway’s curve proved to be taxing. I replaced it with a flapping butterfly instead (what with the ephemerality of the human life!), but the additional movement froze the whole animation. I settled with an unmoving butterfly in the end.

In the end, I was partially satisfied with how the project turned out (visual-wise), as I had more difficulties dealing with jQuery than I did with p5. On the other hand, it’s critical that I spent too much time trying to force the resources to work my way rather than using what the library has to offer; thus limiting myself to better elaborate my idea and to efficiently convey it. There is also much to improve on the audio, which is still too simple and verges on being boring.
