CLOUDY WITH A CHANCE OF SENSIBLE TITLE
Nguyen Phuong Hao

While it took me a lot of time and discussions to come up with the subject, “Cloudy with a chance of Sensible Title” gave me interesting ideas to execute and problems to resolve. This project tackles the humorous side of the situation depicted in James Bridle’s essay, especially the concept of “keywords salad”. In his essay, kids-friendly videos’ titles are usually a mere combination of trendy keywords which – most of the times – don’t make sense at all. While the human audience struggles to comprehend these types of titles, they are most likely to end up on top of the search results. It’s also alarming that some parents don’t care about the content behind these videos: as the titles look similar, they are overwhelmed and end up picking a random one. The kids are then left to explore on their own. With that in mind, I want to illustrate the feeling one has when scrolling through this endless list of titles.

First, I must do my disclaimer for the title, which I blatantly parodied from the well-loved franchise “Cloudy with a chance of meatballs”. This is a title that effectively covers my intentions behind the gameplay, which is to “pour” down a list of random but similar phrases and make the player choose one right answer that corresponds to the given keywords at the bottom of the screen.

The mechanisms are simple. A row of titles falls downward with random speed (albeit limited in a range). All options have the same beginning, used to increase the difficulty of the game. The player chooses an answer. If it is the right one, it will switch to another round. If the answer is wrong, the player’s point is reset, and they can try again until they get it right. If all the titles move out of the screen before the player can give an exact answer, another round will pop up, and the player’s point is reset back to 0. I intended to use voice recorder & voice synthesizer as the only mechanics; but annyang seems unable to perform effectively and consistently at times. The player is thus allowed to click on their correct answer when annyang can’t record their voice.

In order to achieve the “ending”, the player has to score a consecutive streak of 10 correct answers, else the game will continue.  After the player score 10 points, the rain gets heavy and multiple tiles will fall down from the sky, blinding the screen. After that, the game is over. This alludes to the fact that no matter how hard we try, we can never get rid of these nonsensical video titles. As they contain trendy keywords, the search engine will always be in their favor; and no amount of filter is powerful enough to prevent countless channels from making profit on a vulnerable audience. The saturation of automatically generated content nowadays is pretty much comparable to a flood.

When it comes to the visual elements, I decided to use cute, whimsical pixel art as background to provide a playful ambience and also to address the “cloudy” feel in literal sense. The font – Arcane Classic – makes a good pair with pixel art as well. The sound effects are pretty basic, and the background songs are taken from the kids’ Youtube channels in order to live up to the essay’s aesthetics.
